introducing idefics (#1386)
huggingface/blog: idefics.md

IDEFICS is an open-access reproduction of Flamingo and is comparable in performance with the original closed-source model across various image-text understanding benchmarks. It comes in two variants - 80 billion parameters and 9 billion parameters.

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/idefics/Figure_Evals_IDEFICS.png" width="600" alt="Plot comparing the performance of Flamingo, OpenFlamingo and IDEFICS"/>
</p>

We also provide fine-tuned versions [idefics-80B-instruct](https://huggingface.co/HuggingFaceM4/idefics-80b-instruct) and [idefics-9B-instruct](https://huggingface.co/HuggingFaceM4/idefics-9b-instruct) adapted for conversational use cases.

## Training Data

IDEFICS was trained on a mixture of openly available datasets: Wikipedia, Public Multimodal Dataset, and LAION, as well as a new 115B token dataset called [OBELICS](https://huggingface.co/datasets/HuggingFaceM4/OBELICS) that we created. OBELICS consists of 141 million interleaved image-text documents scraped from the web and contains 353 million images.

> We provide an [interactive visualization](https://atlas.nomic.ai/map/f2fba2aa-3647-4f49-a0f3-9347daeee499/ee4a84bd-f125-4bcc-a683-1b4e231cb10f) of OBELICS that allows exploring the content of the dataset with [Nomic AI](https://home.nomic.ai/).

Reviewer: can we add a clickable image of the map here?

<p align="center">

>     <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/idefics/obelics_nomic_map.png" width="600" alt="Interactive visualization of OBELICS"/>

Reviewer: can we make this image clickable and redirect to the map

Author: done [689c7d6](https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/1386/commits/689c7d6a840dce6918c45cf9a28a815ad0ff5e05)

## Ethical evaluation

At the outset of this project, through a set of discussions, we developed an ethical charter (https://huggingface.co/blog/ethical-charter-multimodal) that would help steer decisions made during the project. This charter sets out values, including being self-critical, transparent, and fairness which we have sought to pursue in how we approached the project itself and the release of this model.

As part of the release process, we internally evaluated the model and the [OBELICS](https://huggingface.co/datasets/HuggingFaceM4/OBELICS) dataset for potential biases by adversarially prompting the model with images and text that might elicit responses we do not want from the model (a process known as red teaming). We also carried out a more systematic evaluation of potential biases in the model and the dataset, using the [Data Measurements Tool](https://huggingface.co/blog/data-measurements-tool) library evaluating topics, biases, and associations within the dataset.

> Please try out IDEFICS with the [demo](TODO), checkout the corresponding [model cards](TODO) and [dataset card](TODO) and let us know your feedback using the community tab! We are committed to improving these models and making large multimodal AI models accessible to the machine learning community.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please try out IDEFICS with the [demo](https://huggingface.co/spaces/HuggingFaceM4/idefics_playground), checkout the corresponding [model cards](https://huggingface.co/HuggingFaceM4/idefics-80b) and [dataset card](https://huggingface.co/datasets/HuggingFaceM4/OBELICS) and let us know your feedback using the community tab! We are committed to improving these models and making large multimodal AI models accessible to the machine learning community.
```

thumbnail: /blog/assets/introducing_idefics/thumbnail.jpg
authors:
- user: HugoLaurencon
- user: davanstrien
- user: stas
- user: Leyo
- user: SaulLu
- user: TimeRobber
  guest: true
- user: skaramcheti
  guest: true
- user: aps
  guest: true
- user: giadap
- user: VictorSanh
---

# Introducing IDEFICS: An Open Reproduction of State-of-the-art Visual Langage Model

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->
<!-- {authors} -->

We are excited to release IDEFICS (**I**mage-aware **D**ecoder **E**nhanced à la **F**lamingo with **I**nterleaved **C**ross-attention**S**), an open-access visual language model. IDEFICS is based on [Flamingo](https://huggingface.co/papers/2204.14198), a state-of-the-art visual language model initially developed by DeepMind, which has not been released publicly. Similarly to GPT-4, the model accepts arbitrary sequences of image and text inputs and produces text outputs. IDEFICS is built solely on publicly available data and models (LLaMA v1 and OpenCLIP) and comes in two variants—the base version and the instructed version. Each variant is available at the 9 billion and 80 billion parameter sizes.

> The development of state-of-the-art AI models should be more transparent. Our goal with IDEFICS is to reproduce and provide the AI community with systems that match the capabilities of large proprietary models like Flamingo. As such, we took important steps contributing to bringing transparency to these AI systems: we used only publicly available data, we provided tooling to explore training datasets, we shared [technical lessons and mistakes](https://github.com/huggingface/m4-logs/blob/master/memos/README.md) of building such artifacts and assessed the model’s harmfulness by adversarially prompting it before releasing it. We are hopeful that IDEFICS will serve as a solid foundation for more open research in multimodal AI systems, alongside models like [OpenFlamingo](https://huggingface.co/openflamingo)-another open reproduction of Flamingo at the 9 billion parameter scale.

Author: i think it's standard in english to not have spaces when using hyphens :) https://wmich.edu/writing/punctuation/hyphen#:~:text=A%20dash%20is%20expressed%20as,and%20should%20not%20be%20overused.

Try out the [demo](https://huggingface.co/spaces/HuggingFaceM4/idefics_playground) and the [models](https://huggingface.co/HuggingFaceM4/idefics-80b-instruct) on the Hub!

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/idefics/woodstock_ai.png" width="600" alt="Screenshot of IDEFICS generation for HF Woodstock of AI"/>
</p>

## What is IDEFICS?

IDEFICS is an 80 billion parameters multimodal model that accepts sequences of images and texts as input and generates coherent text as output. It can answer questions about images, describe visual content, create stories grounded in multiple images, etc.

IDEFICS is an open-access reproduction of Flamingo and is comparable in performance with the original closed-source model across various image-text understanding benchmarks. It comes in two variants - 80 billion parameters and 9 billion parameters.

<p align="center">

>     <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/idefics/Figure_Evals_IDEFICS.png" width="600" alt="Plot comparing the performance of Flamingo, OpenFlamingo and IDEFICS"/>

Reviewer 3: Interesting that sometimes the performance decreases with more few-shot examples.

Author: Yes indeed! it really depends on the task. my hypothesis is that it's related to how long each of the instances are, as in the longer the instances are, and the more it requires the model to understand through very long context.
